---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Chapter 2: Installation

### Add build watcher script

### Adding Tailwind CSS to project

### Basic configuration

### Configuring Tailwind CSS

### Configuring Visual Studio Code

### Converting standard CSS to Tailwind CSS

### Create A development Environment With Tailwind CLI

### Customizing Visual Studio Code

### Directives & Functions

### Download Source Code

### Download Visual Studio Code and Node JS

### Favicon and Meta Description

### Get styles and workflow up and running

### Getting everything ready to get started

### Git Installation

### Install Tailwind CSS using CDN link

### Install Tailwind CSS using PostCSS

### Install Tailwind CSS with CLI

### Install Tailwind CSS with postcss

### Install Visual Studio Code Extensions

### Installation of Node.js and Required Packages

### Installation of npm and Tailwind CSS

### Installing Tailwind CSS and creating the final CSS file with Tailwind CLI

### Installing Tailwind CSS and Its Dependencies

### Integrating Tailwind CSS with other frameworks

### Link Tailwind CSS Through CDN

### Node.js installation

### Play CDN: working on your machine without installing anything

### Setting up Postcss and autoprefixer

### Setting up the development Environment

### Setting up the tailwindcss.config.js file

### Setup of Local Development Environment

### Setup Tailwind CSS Through CLI

### Setup Tailwind CSS Through PostCSS

### Standalone Tailwind CSS CLI

### Tailwind CSS Config File

### Tailwind CSS installation and configuration test

### Tailwind Play a full-featured online editor

### Visual Studio Code Extensions

### Visual Studio Tailwind CSS Intellisense Extension

### Webpack & PostCSS Environment

## Up and Running with Tailwind CSS

Let's start by installing Tailwind CSS and including it in the project.

The first thing we need to do is create a new folder. We can do this with our terminal. First of all, open your terminal and make sure you are in a directory that you want to work in.

To change directory, enter `cd` followed by the name of the directory you want to go to.

::: tip

I keep all of my projects in one folder called "Projects" which lives in my documents folder.
Every time I open my terminal, I run this command, which takes me there:

```bash
cd ~/Documents/Projects
```

The `~` is a shortcut to the **home directory**.

:::

Once you’re in the directory that you want to work in, run the following in your terminal:

```bash
mkdir tailwindcss-project
```

This creates an empty folder that will be the base of our project. Now we need to get in there, so use this command:

```bash
cd tailwindcss-project
```

Once you have the starter files downloaded unzip the folder and paste the **entire contents** into your `tailwindcss-project` folder.

If you haven’t already, open your `tailwindcss-project` folder in your text editor now. The folder structure should look like this:

```
src
├── images
├── people
├── posts
└── work
```

Inside each of those folders is content and content assets for our site. We don’t want to be wasting valuable time inputting those manually during this course. We’ll be looking into how the content is all intrinsically linked and how each performs a crucial part in this site’s content system.

Dotfiles are pretty handy so let’s add some.

Create a file named `.gitignore` in your `tailwindcss-project` folder and add the following to it:

```
# Misc
*.log
npm-debug.*
*.scssc
*.swp
.DS_Store
Thumbs.db
.sass-cache
.env
.cache

# Node modules and output
node_modules
dist
src/_includes/css
```

::: tip

When we use a pattern like this: `*.log`, we’re telling Git to ignore any file that ends with that extension. For example, if I wanted to ignore all JavaScript files, I would add `*.js` to the `.gitignore` file. This is all handy for if you decide to use Git while you complete this course.

:::

## Customizing Tailwind CSS

## Including Tailwind CSS and CDN

## Compiling SASS files

## Tailwind CSS deep customization in depth
