---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Chapter 7: UI Elements

## Most Common User Interface Elements

### Accordion


accordion allows users to expand and collapse sections content. The accordion helps users navigate the site quickly and allows the designer to include large amounts of information in a limited space.

```html

```

### Sidebar

The sidebar displays a group of navigational actions or content literally on the side of the page. It can be visible or hidden.

```html

```

### Breadcrumb menu

These little chains of links help users understand where they are on the website. Breadcrumbs, often located at the top of a site, allow users to see their current location and ongoing pages. Users can also click on them to move between steps.

```html

```

### Button

Traditionally displayed as shapes with a label, buttons tell users that they can perform a specific action, such as send a message.

```html

```

### Card

Popular today, cards are small rectangular or square modules containing various information - in the form of buttons, text, multimedia elements. Cards act as an entry point for the user, displaying different kinds of content side by side, which the user can then click on. Needed if the available space is used wisely and provides the user with multiple content options without forcing them to scroll through a traditional list.

```html

```

### Carousel

Carousels allow users to view collections of content such as images or cards, often hyperlinking to other content or sources. The biggest benefit of using carousels in UI design is that they allow multiple content elements to occupy the same area of space on a page or screen.

```html

```

### Checkbox

Checkbox is displayed exactly as the name suggests: a small square box on the screen that the user can check or uncheck. The checkbox allows users to select one of several options from a list, with each checkbox operating separately.

```html

```

### Commentary

Quite common in interfaces today, commentary displays the content that users enter into the system in chronological order.

```html

```

### Tab bar

Tab bars appear at the bottom of the mobile application and allow users to quickly navigate between the main sections of the application.

```html

```

### Tabs and pills

```html
<div class="inline-flex">
  <button
    class="flex items-center h-12 px-4 py-2 text-sm text-center text-gray-700 border border-b-0 border-gray-300 sm:text-base dark:border-gray-500 rounded-t-md dark:text-white whitespace-nowrap focus:outline-none"
  >
    Profile
  </button>

  <button
    class="flex items-center h-12 px-4 py-2 text-sm text-center text-gray-700 bg-transparent border-b border-gray-300 sm:text-base dark:border-gray-500 dark:text-white whitespace-nowrap cursor-base focus:outline-none hover:border-gray-400 dark:hover:border-gray-300"
  >
    Account
  </button>

  <button
    class="flex items-center h-12 px-4 py-2 text-sm text-center text-gray-700 bg-transparent border-b border-gray-300 sm:text-base dark:border-gray-500 dark:text-white whitespace-nowrap cursor-base focus:outline-none hover:border-gray-400 dark:hover:border-gray-300"
  >
    Notification
  </button>
</div>
```

### Dropdown Menu

This UI element allows users to select an item from a list that "drops down" when they click on it.

```html

```

### ScrollSpy

```html

```

### Pop-ups and popovers

```html

```

### Feed

Feeds display user activities in chronological order. Content varies and can range from plain text to images and videos.

```html

```

### Forms

Forms help users enter sets of related information into the system and submit them. Think of all the boxes asking for shipping information when you order something online.

```html

```

### Tooltips

Tooltips provide small hints that help users understand a part or process in an interface.

```html

```

### Icons

Icons are images used to communicate things to users. They can help convey content better, or they can communicate and trigger a specific action. You can learn how to create icons from scratch in this step-by-step guide to the icon creation process.

```html

```

### Input Field Input

fields are simply places where users can enter information into the system. They're not just limited to forms - search bars are also input fields.

```html

```

### Search field

Usually presented as an input field with a small magnifying glass inside, search fields allow users to enter information to search the system.

```html

<div class="relative w-full max-w-md px-5 py-4 mx-auto rounded-md">
    <span class="absolute inset-y-0 left-0 flex items-center pl-3">
        <svg class="w-5 h-5 text-gray-400" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none">
        <path d="M21 21L15 15M17 10C17 13.866 13.866 17 10 17C6.13401 17 3 13.866 3 10C3 6.13401 6.13401 3 10 3C13.866 3 17 6.13401 17 10Z" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round"></path>
    </svg>
    </span>

    <input type="text" class="w-full py-3 pl-10 pr-4 text-gray-700 bg-white border rounded-md dark:bg-gray-900 dark:text-gray-300 dark:border-gray-600 focus:border-blue-400 dark:focus:border-blue-300 focus:outline-none focus:ring focus:ring-blue-300 focus:ring-opacity-40" placeholder="Search">
</div>

```

### Loader

Loaders can take many different forms - designers like to get creative with them. Loaders are designed to let users know that the system is completing an action in the background and must wait.

```html

```

### Switch

Think of switches as on and off switchers that allow us to turn something on or off.

```html

```

### Modal window

A small box with content or a message that requires you to interact with it before you can close it and return to the flow. Remember the last time you deleted an item on your phone. The little message that appears asking you to confirm that you want to delete it is modal.

```html

```

### Notification

Today you will find these little red dots everywhere on interfaces. They let us know that there is something new, like a message, so we can check. Notifications don't just let us know that someone has liked one of our posts, they can tell us that an error has occurred or that the process has completed successfully.

```html

```

### Pagination

Typically located at the bottom of a page, pagination organizes content into pages. Pagination lets users know where they are on the page and click to go to other sections.

```html

```

### Date and Time

Selector Date and Time Selector allows users to select the date and time. The advantage of using selectors over input fields is the ability to store all the data that users enter neatly and in a consistent format in a database, making the information manageable and easily accessible.

```html

```

### Progress bar

Progress bars help users visualize where they are in a series of steps. You'll usually find them at checkout, marking the various steps a user must complete to complete a purchase, such as invoicing and shipping.

```html

```

### Radio Buttons

Often confused with checkboxes, radio buttons are small circular items that allow users to select one option from a list. The key here is that users can only select one option and not multiple options like they can with checkboxes.

```html

```

### Tag

In user interface design, tags are essentially labels that help tag and classify content. They usually consist of relevant keywords that make it easier to find and view the relevant piece of content.

```html

```

### Stepper

Steppers are two-segment controls that also allow users to adjust a value. However, unlike sliders, they only allow users to change the value in predefined increments.

```html

```

### Slider controls

Sliders are a common user interface element used to select a value or range of values. By dragging the slider with a finger or mouse, the user can gradually and precisely adjust a value such as volume, brightness, or the desired price range when shopping.

```html

```
